people cannot afford their car loans
they can't pay it back and we are in the
middle of a big issue we hadn't seen in
the financial crisis you came here for
the truth so let me unveil that for you
car loans are a big one because that
pile has been growing the debt has
become unaffordable and right now it's
getting more difficult to even get that
cash let me explain what I'm talking
about here car loans haven't been this
hard to get since August of 2020 even
consumers with healthy finances are
struggling to secure approval for
automobile purchases as lenders tighten
their standards because look at the cost
associated with it can you believe it
all right you got to understand this
like the I'm going to show you it uh the
data is there but the cars are costing
more people are financing them over
longer periods of time and of course the
interest rates on the those vehicles are
higher than they had been for a while
and this is the result new car inventory
has exploded higher new inventory is now
up
47% from last year so we went from this
crazy remember 2019 I was doing videos
here on this channel we have this over
supply of vehicles there's way too many
I remember article we don't know where
to put them the the lots are full we
have no place to put these things there
were ships that were holding on to cars
and they were just sitting out in the
middle of the
ocean they didn't have a place to put
them then 2020 comes in suddenly we need
car we have no cars we have no car we
have no car no no now we now we have
cars but we have no
semiconductors okay and now we have too
many cars
again you know that all of this is
contrived is manufactured and when you
see these other YouTubers out there they
bring these facts to you and they forget
to mention the fact that all of these
things it's artificial scarcity or you
know in some cases here it it's just
nonsense that they try to bring data to
you and forget that there's so much more
going on like yeah this is happening now
but what was happening a year ago what
was happening 5 years ago three years
ago whatever
let's always keep in mind the you know
as we go through Cycles where we are
at keep that in mind please so important
for reference new car inventory is up
195% over the past 30 months so I mean
it's ridiculous so it depends on where
you look I'm just pulling data from
multiple sources and you see it for
yourself crazy right oh we didn't we
don't have enough cars where are all the
cars oh no we don't we need
semiconductors now everything's fine
there's more than enough semiconductors
apparently there's more than enough
Vehicles
apparently prices haven't come down by
the way new car inventory is rising fast
February started with 80 Days of vehicle
new vehicle Supply the highest level
since June of 2020 expect the deals to
sweeten up for most brands we'll see
this is a reputable um this one here
card dealership
guy you could see that for yourself I've
pulled some data from him before new
vehicle average transaction price okay
it's come down off the peak but the peak
was crazy to begin with we did see a
little bit of that going on in 2020 uh
that's new vehicles used vehicles had
more of the spike that was ridiculous um
but anyway yes we've come off the peak
hopefully that will come down and and go
back to it at the very least back to
trend line most stuff doesn't though so
you know that the prices that people are
paying is just oh my goodness it's
ridiculous and they're getting away with
it all of these manufacturers it doesn't
matter if it's a European Vehicle it
doesn't matter if it's a if it's you
know built in United States Canada what
have you Mexico it it's getting crazy
auto loan access declines this is just
showing us that data connected with the
first article the ability of consumers
to get car financing is at the lowest
level since 2020 and that is it it okay
so first of all should people be paying
the Absurd prices that they have been
for these vehicles in my opinion no I
think it's very very expensive I've
heard some examples of people that I
know and they'll say the price of their
vehicle how much they pay for a lease or
whatever and it's just
mindboggling just like shocked truly
shocked okay um but this tells us
something that's going on because they
could have got it before now they can't
so what has changed is the amount of
debt
there's just too much debt and the banks
are saying we have loan loss Provisions
we we have a rainy day fund but this is
too much okay so that's where the issue
becomes really big car owners are
underwater by the most since 2020
negative equity is rising As Americans
grapple with higher interest rates so
that is just showing us how much truly
the average negative equity I mean 6
,000 and it doesn't seem to be stopping
anytime soon unless they start heavily
cutting interest rates and things
change you could see the um this is just
showing us the new auto loan okay so
it's a 60-month loan depends on of
course the the duration there but this
is at 8% so if people are going to
borrow at
8% well then that car becomes more like
a mortgage payment right it really is
for a long lot of people because it's
high interest and then of course you're
not paying it over 30 years you're
paying it over a shorter period of time
so that payment is mass I've seen some
crazy examples and then we have the new
car loans amount financed which has
exceeded
$4,000 so people are financing
$40,000 for their vehicle then you got
to pay that off over is it five years is
it you know however long and that is
going to be a considerable sum suddenly
they can't afford it anymore and then we
have this British Columbia and Ontario
mortgage holders increasingly missed
payments in Q4 so just all along I'm
just showing you this US Canada Europe
everywhere else same issues going on the
conditions right now are worse than they
have been and it doesn't mean that
tomorrow they could simply flip a switch
and everything's going to be fixed
because if they start cutting interest
rates let's say tomorrow they cut
interest rates that's 25 basis points
then another one and then another one
they only do so many of these unless
it's an emergency they only do so many
rate Cuts so even into next year if we
get a few let's say we get three
interest rate Cuts this year and then in
next year we get a few more all right
that's fine that's great but know that
we are still elevated from where we had
been at that 0% interest so it's going
to be a lot of more pain for people you
got to get your debt situation handle do
everything you can to pay down your bad
debt and start to accumulate as best you
can in terms of assets do what you can
if it requires you to get outside your
comfort zone now is the time I know you
could you could have said to yourself I
should have bought Bitcoin when it was
$1 but don't do that don't beat yourself
up today is the day when you have to
take action if you want more advice if
you want more information I have my two
programs that I have business live which
is on Sunday where I teach people to
make money online build a geographically
Diversified business that is unlike
anything you've seen before join me link
in the description I've got the finance
Friday as well hit that thumbs up button
on the way out I thank you for being
here and of course as always find me
tomorrow the money GPS I'll see you then
take
care